I would like you to explain something,
a concept that is the concept
of dilution and that is something
that comes in pair to finance
you with private capital because
as investors come in they
are making capital expansions
and usually as you
will explain, not always,
the founders of the
company have less percentage
of the company.
Just, in the end, the simplest
way to put capital inside a society
is by selling pieces, that
is, selling shares of the society
to the new people who
enter.
So, to do that, what you have
to do is take away those who
are left.
At that time, every time I make
a capital increase, all partners
are losing percentage,
but as Borja pointed out, investors
have a way to avoid that dilution
if they are interested, which
is by bringing more capital.
But the entrepreneur does not have
that ability and often, even
if he could, he does not leave it.
Then, in the end, the entrepreneur
is seeing that the more money
goes into his company,
the smaller it is gradually
its percentage, to reach
percentages that can be
as small as 5 or 10%.
I would like you to tell us how, to
see, this cannot be equated to all
companies because it depends
on the model.
Usually, models with greater
potential, more scalable business
models, etc., and that require
more funding, usually go
matched that founders
end up having a smaller
portion of the cake.
And the opposite is, if you do a
business of the traditional,
if you run a bar, because you
do not need it, because you can’
t grow more.
But if you have a company like
Wallapop, you will need many
rounds, each time to higher
valuations, because one day you
will have a small percentage,
in principle normal, of the
company.
How are these, have we already
seen the rounds, the seed, the
listing growth, etc., and how,
generally, so that our students
get a little idea, how are these
percentages of dilution or
percentage variing in the hands
of entrepreneurs?
This is part of a very interesting
basis, which is the agreement
that is established between investors
and entrepreneurs.
It is an agreement in which
investors put the money, the entrepreneur
puts the work, but it is an agreement
that can be broken at any time,
unilaterally, if the entrepreneur,
whatever it is, says, hears,
because I am no longer motivated,
or I am no longer interested,
or I can go out.
This adds a point of uncertainty
to the investor’s investments.
For the investor, the motivation
of the entrepreneur is crucial.
An entrepreneur must have a very
high motivation, because an entrepreneur
who gets tired, burns and leaves,
automatically loses
all the investment they have
made in that company.
So, entrepreneurs start because
we are excited, because we like
it, because we want to change
the world, but we also
start for money.
And starting is a very hard thing.
In the end, one in three days you
think about throwing the towel,
you are earning two, three times
less than you could earn in the labor
market, working all the hours
of the day, and at the end there
is a phrase that says
that entrepreneurs live as
no one wants to live a few years,
then live as everyone would
like to live.
Then the carrots that are at the end of
the stick, because they are those
hundreds of thousands or millions of
euros that you expect to win when the
company is sold.
If you reach the end of
the tour with a very low percentage,
one or two percent, it may
be that in the toughest moments
the motivation is not enough.
To get this out of 10,000, 20,
000 euros, I look for a
normal job and I earn more next
year that I work.
What would be the percentage?
We are starting?
A company, a startup, and the
founders create the society
and have 100%?
The normal...
From there down?
and yes.
That is, you start with the 100
and go the last day you have as you
get into this of the venture capital
funds and the business angel.
The industry standard, which,
as we saw in the previous class,
ultimately all depends on the money
you need and the percentage
you are willing to give.
But one industry standard could
be said to be that in the first
round of financing you sell between
15 and 20 percent of your company.
So, we are at a time when the entrepreneur
remains with 80%, cedes 15-20%
and therefore it would be like
the output shot to already
start diluting until it comes
to success.
Here are a couple of interesting things.
A too complicated corporate
structure at the beginning in
this phase can make the company,
no matter how good the product
is or how promising the startup
is, lose its attractiveness
to investors.
We commented when we talked about the
different forms of financing,
the round friends, families and full,
when we started asking for
money to cousins, friends, so,
I don’t know what, we can fall into
the error of starting to share
the equity of our company and that
when the first professional investor
comes to our society, he will find
a society in which there are
15 partners who have equally contributed
very little amount of money,
who do not contribute any other
value, who are not professional
investors and who leave a structure
in which the entrepreneur
is already super diluted.
Basically, of that 80, if the entrepreneur
who is the one who brings value, that is
the only one that the investor wants, because
the cousin, the uncle, I don’t know what,
because it is that it does not bring
anything, if of that 80 already has a
small part, there is very little margin
already.
There is very little room.
And it is not only a matter of
margin that the entrepreneur has little
but also gives up to laziness.
We were valuing a project a few
years ago that had a very good
look, an invention, a patent,
a very spectacular thing,
but that among the founding partners
was so spectacular that
they had managed to invest
everyone in their environment.
They were going to ask for money from the
bank and the director of the office
was putting money, they were going to sign
the notary and the notary was putting
money, then the whole town has put
money to me, then the shareholder
was very complex.
The moment we were going to arrive
we already gave a dullness bestial
because you are already anticipating
a lot of problems and really of all
of them there were very few, two in
particular, the founder and another
person who is a student of Pobre
Envía and also coincides, I am
realizing, that they were those
who brought some value, but the
rest not, the rest the only thing
I did was to bring complexity
to the shareholder.
Here there would be two solutions,
I would say that the ideal,
that is, at the beginning,
it is true that for example if you
want to attract talent, if you
have a project, a technological
idea but you do not have money to
pay a technological partner
or your first employees, you
need to incorporate people, although
as we will already see the
later it is incorporated better,
it is true that equity
is a very good way to motivate
or incentivize or to attract
talent or even investment at
the beginning, but there are figures
like the phantom shares that
allow you to give options
on the equity of your company
but are not shares signed before
notaries, they do not form part
of the structure, but it
is an option that gives you
when the company is sold or
there is a liquidation
process because you take your
part, that is a very good
way to incentivize or
attract
Well then, we have described the
initial situation, which is
the first round of entry of an
investor and already has 20% of
your company and the remaining
80%, the advice we have given
is that the less diluted within
that 80 are the founders or people
who provide better value,
but we will put ourselves in
the situation of a model that
needs to grow and need
to be funded and come X rounds,
whatever they are.
These X rounds, in addition one of the
problems that there is is that a priori
it is very difficult to predict or
know how many rounds we will have to
do and these rounds in addition what
sizes will have, then you have to apply
a principle of prudence, a good
investor told me that if you believe
your project the most expensive you
have is equity, but you have
to take care of your equity but
also without fear of losing control
or without fear of passing the
barrier of 50 % and understanding that
that money that will enter is what
will allow your company to get where
you want all that come both the
investor and the entrepreneur
that is to the final sale or
even to the exit to the stock
exchange.
Yes, because in the cake as they go
giving those rounds each time the
percentage in green of entrepreneurs
is decreasing, if the entrepreneur
has an attitude that is I want
to stay with the largest percentage
possible will compromise
growth because it will enter
less money because your company
is less attractive to investors
etc.
So what can happen if you have
70% of something that is not worth
anything and a competitor is
more ambitious than he but is more
unleashed from his equity and ends
up having 30% of a company that bares
the other because bares the other
because he has managed to capture
millions and millions and has
known how to use them well and
well ends up getting with the
market.
So it’s a balance we all know entrepreneurs
who have made exits in which
they have earned a lot of money
and have managed to maintain
a high percentage of the company.
Sometimes even surprising but it
is not the usual is not the vital
and if we talk about giant companies
the entrepreneurs do not know I
would like you to tell us a little
what is the standard a little
in a very valuable company exit
what percentage can aspire
to have the founder.
It is true that it is very complicated.
It is complicated but the photo finish
at the end when when it is sold or when
the bag is out, it usually runs
between a maximum of 20% and is already
a little exceptional and 8 or 10 12%
more or less.
It should be noted that these are
very large companies.
very large.
It needs to be financially funded a lot.
A lot of growth.
They are companies in which they
have been able to enter tens
of millions or as we have already
cases in Spain hundreds of millions
of euros that is very much money.
I would like you to tell us if there
is a situation in this world in
these companies and it is that before
coming to exit or before it came out
stock before these shares are liquid.
There are entrepreneurs who have
already stopped being entrepreneurs
and they are entrepreneurs who are
owners of shares that are worth
a lot of money.
Many millions but they can’t sell
them because investors don’t let
them go because if you are the
founder you are the engine of
a company and you tell
your board you say it’s not
that I want to sell part.
This is because it generates
a perception of risk by the investor
altogether.
In fact, in partnership agreements
there are clauses that regulate that
they regulate who you can sell
when you can sell.
There are even a couple of clauses
that allow investors to sell
your shares to whom they want
when they want and for what they
want to avoid a little of this
type of case.
I, for example, in my case at the
time of ninth box because I came to
have in notary several million euros
in shares that I could not sell or
then not to make a exit of the
company because they remained
in nothing.
I was with a salary much lower
than I could be earning in
the market by working all hours
of the day with a supernormal
life but on paper it was millionaire.
I know a lot of cases like that
of people who actually have
on paper if you multiply the percentage
they have for the value that
has been closed in the last
round are people who have tens
of millions of euros but have
a normal life because they have
a normal salary and because
until they don’t sell it because
that won’t materialize and what
you have to take into account
here is that it’s not easy
to sell.
And the last one that can sell
is the founder curiously because the
rest are investors if the rating
has grown by 10 by 20 because there
are very many people who make
a lot of money along the way.
In fact, it is very normal that
investors who enter a first
phase business angels profiles even
incubators or accelerators
of companies that in more advanced
rounds are out and in fact it
is a thing that professional
investors who enter later
rounds because it seems even
better to them.
The more you pointed out at the
beginning the cleaner the company
structure and the less full
the board of directors
because professional investors
feel more comfortable.
Then, as Borja said, it is very normal
that in a second third round the
accelerator that put 100 thousand
euros or 40 thousand euros in a low
valuation in the seed phase because
suddenly it comes out making
one by three one by four one
by five.
At the time when a series enters
a more professional venture
capital fund.
To finish I want to make it clear that
this career we are drawing is exciting
from the point of view of the entrepreneur
is exciting and really
not a lot of people have lived
not a lot of people are inside
this world of a company that
is worth millions that you are
diluting etc.
But what people the number of true
hits of a million of tens of millions
that many of us know if you compare
it to the total world of entrepreneurship
at a global level is that
it is very small.
In order for you to get an idea because
in Spain there can be quietly 300 accelerators
only in data accelerators that
startups that are starting there
will be thousands and the year
there are one two hits in
fat conditions.
The percentage is very small I
like talking about the rounds
as an anecdote when I started in
a box a very successful Spanish
entrepreneur I just had to be
about to make a success and so
I told and I said it is not that
we just got married and I was
about to postpone the boyfriend’
s trip because I was closing
a round of funding.
I at that moment thought I said
my mom or that more exaggerated
uncle you know or postponing your boyfriend
trip because it is closing a
round this uncle is fatal and then
when I saw in the funding rounds you
postponed the whole wedding boyfriend
trip and if you are pregnant you
tell the doctor that you propose
to do the cesarean before or after
to be able to close the round
because the tension is maximum
because at the end of that your
ability to raise rounds if you are
not profitable depends on the work
of a lot of people and many
hours.
That has been invested and
the interests of many people.